# Collatz Conjecture Website
#### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1R8_hCf8sAw
#### Description: A hobby website that shows my database of the collatz conjecture.

#### The home page shows the number of the day along with other information about my database. The missing numbers tab shows the missing numbers in my database. The number details tab shows a number's details. The trees tab shows a visual representation of the numbers. The charts tab shows another version of the visual representation of the numbers in my database.

#### I am using a flask program to run this. I have the flask running in app.py. I first run what the number of the day would be (nod). This will be referenced in the website. The home page is running from the index function. It pulls data from the sql_data.py file, more details on that later. The next function is the trees function where we take in the sql data and produce an image that will be displayed on the website. We have 4 different types of trees: whole tree, partial tree with equal steps, a line representation, and the option to see what numbers come up at what step. The "whole tree" option will show you what the my complete database will look like visualized as a tree, with the option to view the number you want highlighted. The "partial tree with equal steps" option lets you see what other numbers have the same amount of steps visualized as a tree. The "line representation" option shows you the exact same thing as the previous option but without the steps. And the last option lets you view what everything up to the count away from the "4,2,1" loop. To make these trees I used a python module called graphviz. The chart tab uses a javascript function (charts.js) to make the charts interactive. You can hover over a point and it will give you information on that line and point. Also on this page you can view the what ever number you want to on the chart as a line.

#### The SQL database is called "numbers.db". There is a table in there that helps keep track of all the numbers in the database. The table (called "positive_numbers") had the columns 'id' (which would be unique and primary key) be in a varchar(255) format, 'previous_even' and 'previous_odd' in varchar(255) format, 'next' also varchar(255) format, 'step_count' as an integer and loop_number which is also an integer. I made the all the number columns be varchar(255) for the reason being the "Collatz Conjecture" the theory is that if there is another loop the numbers would be bigger than the number googol (10*100 digits long, a one followed by one hundred zeros). I didn't want to have to take up giant chunks of memory if I could use the varchar would take up some space, and in python I change the string numbers to integer numbers. I have a function that finds the next number if it's not already in the database. For the video I couldn't show an empty database so I brought had my function go up to 101. I originally brought the database to the number 2000 but the charts were slow to load, trees pictures failed to be made, and the website was super slow to load that it didn't work out (but the data was cool to look at when it did finally load). To access the SQL database I would use a python module called "sqlite3" in a python file called "sql_data.py" which I would import into another file called "trees.py" and "app.py". In sql_data I would calculate each number to see if the number was already in the database or not.